CI-17161 Docs changes for build push split use cases (#10227)
harness/developer-hub: docs/continuous-integration/use-ci/build-and-upload-artifacts/build-without-push.md

The following sections provide step-by-step examples for the following scenarios:
- **Build-only**: Build an image without pushing it.
- **Push-only**: Push a pre-built image.
- **Build once, push to multiple registries**: Push the same image to several registries in parallel.
- **Build, scan, and push**: Secure your image before pushing it.

## Build-only
In build-only mode, you build a Docker image locally without pushing it to a registry. The resulting image can be either loaded into the local Docker image store (BuildX) or saved as a tarball file (both BuildX and Kaniko), which can then be scanned or reused in later steps. This is useful for workflows that require image validation or vulnerability scanning before pushing.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="BuildX" label="BuildX" default>

 Following are reference snippets in `build-only` mode using BuildX or Kaniko:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Cloud" label="Cloud">

  - Ensure Docker Layer Caching (DLC) is enabled, for BuildX to be used.
  - Use the following environment variables:
    - `PLUGIN_NO_PUSH`: `true` - skips pushing the image.
    - `PLUGIN_BUILDX_LOAD`: `true` - loads the image into local Docker Daemon.

>     - `PLUGIN_TAR_PATH`: Path for saving the image as tar archive (Optional) (e.g. /folder/image.tar) - if you choose to build a tarball image.

Author: looks like the image tar is being saved in the current working directory: https://app.harness.io/ng/account/gVcEoNyqQNKbigC_hA3JqA/all/orgs/default/projects/Shiv/pipelines/test/executions/91fAIi0PSGWmtW2OcjbA1A/pipeline?step=ncHg3VGfSm-sS6vE-TjJ6A&stage=ncSH2tbTQeGoVtRl5OTsTA&childStage=&stageExecId=

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

There might be cases where you want to build a Docker image without pushing the image to a registry. A common example is to build an image locally, scan it for vulnerabilities and push the image upon a successful scan. 

In Harness CI, you can build container images without pushing them. This can be achieved by passing an environment variable to the **Build and Push** steps (meant to be used to build and push in one step execution) to modify their default behavior.

The environment variable to use depends on the build tool used in the **Build and Push** steps. Refer to the table below to learn more.

> Harness CI uses different build tools depending on the infrastructure and feature flags. Here’s how to configure your environment correctly for each scenario:

Reviewer: @shivloka-harness  yesterday we talked about making this more clear and breaking the page per operation: 
1. build only
2. push only
3. pushing to multiple registries w retagging
 + examples

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Each organization may have different workflows to build and push Docker images. One common scenario is to build an image locally, scan it for vulnerabilities, and push only after a successful scan.

Harness CI now supports these workflows by passing environment variables to adjust the default behavior of the native **Build and Push steps**. Based on the selected build infrastructure Harness uses one of two build tools to build and push images- Kaniko or BuildX. You now have the option to pick one of these build tools.
Before we dive into the workflows supported by Harness, lets look at why you would choose one build tool over another.

**Kaniko** is used to build container images from a Dockerfile inside a container or Kubernetes pod.
- Runs without privileged mode (granting same capabilities as the host machine - making it a root-level container)
- Default choice for Kubernetes environments
- Executes Dockerfile instructions directly

**BuildX** is a Docker CLI plugin that extends Docker's build capabilities using BuildKit (Docker's builder). It relies on a Docker daemon to perform builds. 

> - It is better for caching, multi-platform builds
> - It works in two modes:
>   - With Docker Daemon (may require Docker-in-Docker) 
>   - Daemonless mode (using containerd or remote builders)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Better for caching and multi-platform builds
- Works in two modes:
  - With Docker Daemon (may require Docker-in-Docker) 
  - Daemonless mode (using containerd or remote builders)
```

Reviewer 2: Consider doing this, to match with the bullet structure you used for Kaniko

:::note

> By default, Harness uses Kaniko for Kubernetes builds. To use BuildX instead, enable the `CI_USE_BUILDX_ON_K8` feature flag.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, Harness uses Kaniko for Kubernetes builds. To use BuildX instead, enable the `CI_USE_BUILDX_ON_K8` feature flag by contacting [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io).
```

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Each organization may have different workflows to build and push Docker images. One common scenario is to build an image locally, scan it for vulnerabilities, and push only after a successful scan.

Harness CI now supports these workflows by passing environment variables to adjust the default behavior of the native **Build and Push steps**. The build and push steps may work with either Kaniko or BuildX plugins under the hood, and the plugin used will impact the environment variables passed to the steps. 

Before we dive into the workflows supported by Harness, lets look at why you would choose one build tool over another.

**Kaniko** is used to build container images from a Dockerfile inside a container or Kubernetes pod.
- Runs without privileged mode (granting same capabilities as the host machine - making it a root-level container)
- **Default** choice for Kubernetes environments
- Executes Dockerfile instructions directly

**BuildX** is a Docker CLI plugin that extends Docker's build capabilities using BuildKit (Docker's builder). It relies on a Docker daemon to perform builds. 
- Better for caching and multi-platform builds

> - **Default** choice for non kubernetes environments

Reviewer 3: we should remove this statement as this isn't the default choice in non-k8s environment's unless DLC is enabled and even in k8s, when FF `CI_USE_BUILDX_ON_K8` is enabled it overrides kaniko.

| `PLUGIN_PUSH_ONLY`           | Set as `true` for pushing an image without rebuilding it.                                                                                                          | BuildX + Kaniko                                   |
| `PLUGIN_BUILDX_LOAD`         | Required when using a non default docker driver (docker-container, kubernetes or remote). The resulting image is loaded into local Docker image store to make it available in subsequent steps                                          | BuildX only                    |
| `PLUGIN_TAR_PATH`            | Used when in build-only mode to provide a path for in which to save the tarball image (if exporting as a `.tar` file).                                                                    |  BuildX + Kaniko                                     |
| `PLUGIN_SOURCE_TAR_PATH`     |  Used when in push-only mode, to provide a Path to a local tarball image to be pushed.                                                                                                       |  BuildX + Kaniko                                     |

> | `PLUGIN_SOURCE_IMAGE`        | Used when in push-only mode, in case you need to retag and push.                                                                                    |  BuildX + Kaniko                                     |

Reviewer 3: this should be BuildX only for now

| `PLUGIN_DAEMON_OFF`          | Runs BuildX in daemonless mode, commonly used for Kubernetes builds in conjunction with a docker daemon provisioned in a Background step (DIND).| BuildX only                    |

In the sections below, we will cover the following build and push image workflows: 
- Build-only
- Push-only
- Build once and push to multiple registries
- Build, scan and push image as a tarball using Kaniko

## Build-only
This mode builds a Docker image locally without pushing it to a registry. For instance, you might build an image locally and store it as an artifact or scan it for vulnerabilities in another step.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="BuildX" label="BuildX" default>

 Following are reference snippets in `build-only` mode using BuildX on **Harness Cloud** and **Kubernetes**

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Cloud" label="Cloud">

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

To use BuildX on Harness Cloud ensure Docker Layer Caching (DLC) is enabled in the step

```

#### Setup
- Set the following environment variables:
  - `PLUGIN_NO_PUSH`: `true` (skips pushing the image)

>   - `PLUGIN_TAR_PATH`: `Path for saving the image as tar archive (Optional)` (e.g. /folder/image.tar) - if you choose to build a tarball image

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - `PLUGIN_BUILDX_LOAD`: `true` to load the built image into Docker Daemon
  - Optional `PLUGIN_TAR_PATH`: `Path for saving the image as tar archive` (e.g. /folder/image.tar) - if you choose to store the image as tarball
```

```YAML
  - step: 
      type: BuildAndPushDockerRegistry
      name: docker build only
      identifier: BuildAndPushDockerRegistry_1
      spec:
        connectorRef: YOUR_DOCKER_CONNECTOR
        repo: YOUR_DOCKER_REPO_NAME
        tags:
          - v.-<+pipeline.sequenceId>
        caching: true #DLC on - required for using BuildX builder.
        envVariables:
          PLUGIN_NO_PUSH: 'true' # build-only mode

>           PLUGIN_TAR_PATH: /PATH/TO/TAR # (optional) set in case you wish to export a tarball file. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
          PLUGIN_BUILDX_LOAD: "true"
```

```
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Kubernetes" label="Kubernetes">

To use BuildX on Kubernetes ensure either Docker Layer Caching (DLC) is enabled or the `CI_USE_BUILDX_ON_K8` feature flag is enabled.

#### Setup
- Set the following environment variables:
  - `PLUGIN_NO_PUSH`: `true` (skips pushing the image)
  - `PLUGIN_TAR_PATH`: `Path for saving the image as tar archive (Optional)` (e.g. /folder/image.tar) - if you choose to build a tarball image
  - `PLUGIN_DEAEMON_OFF`: `true` (for daemonless BuildX mode)

>   - `PLUGIN_BUILDX_LOAD`: `true` - required when running a build on **Harness Cloud** (the resulting image is loaded into local Docker image store to make it available in subsequent steps)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 3: so it's safe to say where Cache arguments are passed, BUILDX_LOAD is required as in K8S it's required only when DLC is enabled in the OOTB step where cache related arguments are passed and when FF BUILDX_ON_K8S is enabled it's not a required argument.

:::note

> When the `PLUGIN_DAEMON_OFF` environment variable set to `true`, a background step with a Docker container(DinD) is required, as shown in the snippet below

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the `PLUGIN_DAEMON_OFF` environment variable set to `true`, a background step with a Docker container(DinD) is required and also add `/var/run` under Stage > Overview > Shared Paths, as shown in the snippet below
```

              repo: myorg/myapp
              tags:
                - v.<+pipeline.sequenceId>
              envVariables:
                PLUGIN_NO_PUSH: "true"
                PLUGIN_BUILDX_LOAD: "true"
                PLUGIN_DAEMON_OFF: "true"
        - parallel:
            - step:
                identifier: push_to_docker
                type: BuildAndPushDockerRegistry
                name: Docker Push only
                spec:
                  connectorRef: DOCKER_CONNECTOR
                  repo: myorg/myapp
                  tags:
                    - v.<+pipeline.sequenceId>
                  envVariables:
                    PLUGIN_PUSH_ONLY: "true"
                    PLUGIN_DAEMON_OFF: "true"
            - step:
                identifier: push_to_ecr
                type: BuildAndPushECR
                name: Push to ECR
                spec:
                  connectorRef: AWS_CONNECTOR
                  region: REGION
                  account: AWS_ACCOUNT_ID
                  imageName: myapp
                  tags:
                    - v.<+pipeline.sequenceId>
                  envVariables:
                    PLUGIN_PUSH_ONLY: "true"

>                     PLUGIN_SOURCE_IMAGE: myorg/myapp:v.<+pipeline.sequenceId>

Reviewer: is it required to provide a different value than the one used in the tags for building the image?

>                       workspace: /harness/image.tar

Reviewer: @shivloka-harness  we build and save tar as 'image.tar' but then we scan 'harness/image.tar'

will that work? please validate the tar paths throughout the doc
